So far we've been exclusively using javascript to interact with the page that the user is on.
But there is a huge amount more that we can do with javascript and we're going to start getting into
that now by looking at a basic programming concept of variables.
So first off I'm going to clear all this content to get us back to a nice clean empty page and let's
have a quick look at what I mean by a variable.
If you think back to your school days you might remember solving equations with X or Y in them.
In that case both X and Y were variables they were letters that represented certain values and that's
what they are.
In javascript as well and indeed in programming in general so we might for example create a variable
which we do using the keyword Voll and a variable might be called X and we might set it equal to 5 for
whatever reason.
Simple as that.
So now we've got a variable which is called X and it's equal to 5.
We can prove that to ourselves by alerting the value of x to notice I don't have quotes around my X
this time.
If I do that it will just alert the letter X but without quotes it will alert the value of the variable
x which is 5.
I can change the value of x whatever I like and that will change.
I can also update the value of x later on it's not fixed.
Service starts off as 10.
I can then later on just change x to be 20 for example.
I don't have the VAR this time because I'm not defining X. I'm just changing its value.
So if x is now 20 again that's the value.
I can also have no numerical variables so I might have the variable name and set it equal to rub.
Now to tell the browser that this is a string we put it in quites just like we have done with strings
of letters all along.
So let's have a look now and see what that gives us.
I have a quick think what should pop up.
Of course Rob so variables are hugely powerful things and we're going to use them throughout the rest
of this cause.
How might we use one to do something in a web page like the ones we've been creating so far.
Well let's try this as an example and I'll set it up as a mini challenge.
Can you create a text input and then a button next to it which says change the text.
Is it a text input and a button next to it.
This has changed the text different.
All right.
You got it pretty straightforward.
We just use input and then the default type is text.
But I do like to specify any way that we have a text input here.
So there's a text input and then next to it we're going to have a button with the value of change that
text
and there we go.
And of course it's still alerting robe that get rid of that for the moment.
All right so what we're going to do is we're going to have a paragraph which just says this is some
text.
And then what we're going to set our little page up to do here is to allow the user to type whatever
they want into the box.
And then when we click that button then whatever the user has typed in the box will replace.
This is some text down here and we'll use a variable to do that.
All right so a little mini challenge for you.
Can you make it so that when you click they change the text button.
Something happens.
I don't care what it is you can update some content you can alert something you can do whatever you
like but just make it so that when I click that button something happens go for it.
I wonder how creative you got there.
I would start off by giving the button an ID I'll call it text changer like that.
And then we need to get that button and we do that in the now hopefully familiar way of document to
get element by ID.
And then the ID is text changer and then we want to set the on click
to a function which will define with some kind of brackets.
So I did my challenge just said do some things I will just say alert I wrote for an Now just to make
sure that everything's connected up nicely.
I would recommend doing that when you're working three making a site and making interactive things.
Just do it really step by step.
Don't try and code everything in one go because inevitably it won't work and then it'll take you ages
to figure out what's wrong.
But if you do it step by step hopefully you'll make fewer mistakes.
And if you do make mistakes you'll be a lot easier to see where those mistakes are.
Right.
So now what I'm going to do is get the value of our text input and the value is going to be whatever
the user has typed into it.
So I'm going to set up a variable I'll call it text and it like that and I'm using the same capitalization
convention so small letters all the way through.
Except for the beginning letters of the second and future words.
And initially I'm going to set it to an empty string like that.
So this tells the browser that we want this to be a string.
But initially it's empty just like the box is initially empty.
But then I'm going to take text entered and set it so the value of whatever the user has typed in the
box and to do that I need to set an ID
for my input.
I'll just use text input.
And now I want to get the value of text input.
So I do that using Document get element by id text input is the ID and then I want to get the value
of that.
Simple as that so this will give us the value that the user has typed into that box.
And just to check let's let its value
just to take a look.
So I'm just going to get a SDF in there.
And there we go.
So we've taken our variable we've created it and then we've set it equal to the value of the input which
is just whatever the user has typed.
So final challenge then can you change the last line of our code so that instead of alerting text entered
it sets the value of the first paragraph or the of each DML I should say of this paragraph to whatever
the user has typed in.
Go for it.
All right.
How do you manage that.
I'm going to give a paragraph an ID and I'll just call it text.
And then once again we're going to get that in the usual way and we're going to set it in t HMO to be
equal to a text.
And there we go.
Simple as that.
So let's run this again.
Type in some text change the text and there we go.
So this is a very basic usage of variables to allow us to add another level of interactivity in our
page.
So we're not just clicking buttons and doing something but we're actually allowing the user to type
in something and then getting the results and doing something with them on our page.
So variables open up a whole new world of power and interactivity that we can create with our Web sites
and we're going to take that further and further over the next few videos specifically in the next one.
Looking at array's.